Readme.md, before:

# Marmot (mrm)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sapegin/mrm.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/sapegin/mrm)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/mrm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mrm)

Command line tool to help you keep configuration (`package.json`, `.gitignore`, `.eslintrc`, etc.) of your open source projects in sync.

## Features

* Will not overwrite your data if you don’t want it to
* Has tools to work with JSON, YAML, INI, Markdown and text files
* Has bunch of [customizable tasks](#tasks)
* Easy to write [your own tasks](#custom-tasks)

![](https://d3vv6lp55qjaqc.cloudfront.net/items/1g0e2M3m2Y3j0m3B3n1t/Image%202017-06-20%20at%209.00.39%20PM.png)

## Motivation

Most of the available tools are template based. Template approach works moderately well for new project generation but doesn’t work well for updating. Marmot’s approach is closer to [codemods](https://github.com/facebook/codemod) than templates.

## Installation

```
npm install -g mrm
```

## Usage

Print a list available of tasks:

```shell
mrm
```

Run a task or an alias

```shell
mrm gitignore
mrm license
```

Run multiple tasks:

```shell
mrm gitignore license
```

Override config options (or run without a config file):

```shell
mrm license --config:name "Gandalf the Grey" --config:email "gandalf@middleearth.com" --config:url "http://middleearth.com"
```

Custom config and tasks folder:

```shell
mrm license --dir ~/unicorn
```

## Usage via npx

If you have npm 5.3 or newer you can use mrm without installation:

```shell
npx mrm
npx mrm gitignore
npx mrm license --config:name "Gandalf the Grey" --config:email "gandalf@middleearth.com" --config:url "http://middleearth.com"
```

## Configuration

Create `~/.mrm/config.json` or `~/dotfiles/mrm/config.json`:

```json5
{
    "name": "Gandalf the Grey",
    "email": "gandalf@middleearth.com",
    "url": "http://middleearth.com",
    "indent": "tab", // "tab" or number of spaces
    "readmeFile": "Readme.md", // Name of readme file
    "licenseFile": "License.md", // Name of license file
    "aliases": {  // Aliases to run multiple tasks at once
        "node": ["license", "readme", "package", "editorconfig", "eslint", "gitignore"]
    }
}
```

*Config file isn’t required, you can also pass config options via command line. Default tasks will try to [read data](https://github.com/sapegin/user-meta) fom your npm and Git configuration.*

## Tasks

### codecov

Adds [Codecov](https://codecov.io/) to Travis CI config (see [travis](#travis) task) and Readme badge.

### editorconfig

[EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/): adds `.editorconfig`.

Config options:

* `indent` — indentation, `tab` or number of spaces (by default `tab`).

### eslint

[ESLint](http://eslint.org/): adds `.eslintrc`, adds npm script and installs dependencies.

Config options:

* `eslintPreset` — preset name (not npm package name, by default will install `eslint:recommended` preset)
* `eslintPeerDependencies` — additional dependencies to install (e.g. `['prettier', 'eslint-plugin-prettier']`)

### gitignore

Adds `.gitignore` with `node_modules`, logs and artifacts of popular code editors.

### jest

[Jest](https://facebook.github.io/jest/): adds npm scripts, updates `.gitignore`, `.npmignore`, `.eslintignore` with common patterns, installs dependencies. Tries to get rid of Mocha and AVA configs.

### license

Adds license file based on `license` field in `package.json`.

Config options:

* `licenseFile` — File name (by default `License.md`).

### lintstaged

[lint-staged](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged): creates config in `package.json`, sets up pre-commit Git hook and installs dependencies.

### package

Creates `package.json`.

### readme

Creates Readme file.

Config options:

* `readmeFile` — Name of the readme file (by default `Readme.md`).

### styleguidist

[React Styleguidist](https://react-styleguidist.js.org/): adds style guide config, adds npm scripts and installs dependencies.

### stylelint

[Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/): adds `.stylelintrc`, adds npm script and installs dependencies.

Config options:

* `stylelintPreset` — preset name (by default will install `stylelint-config-standard` preset)
* `stylelintExtensions` — file extensions to lint (by default `.css`)

### travis

[Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/): creates `.travis.yml` and adds Travis CI badge to Readme.

### typescript

[TypeScript](https://stylelint.io/): adds `tsconfig.json` and installs dependencies.

## Custom tasks

Create either `~/.mrm/<taskname>/index.js` or `~/dotfiles/mrm/<taskname>/index.js`. If `<taskname>` is the same as one of the internal tasks your task will override an internal one.

```js
const { /* ... */ } = require('mrm-core');
const meta = require('user-meta');
module.exports = function(config, argv) {
  const { name, email } = config
    .defaults({ name: meta.name }) // Set “dynamic” default values (this will affect require() method below)
    .require('name', 'email') // Mark config values as required
    .values(); // Returns object with all config options
  // config('name') - config value
  // config('name', 'default value') - config value with a default value
  // argv - command line arguments
};
module.exports.description = 'Task description';
```

If your custom tasks have dependencies (such as `mrm-core`) you should initialize the `mrm` folder as an npm module and list your dependencies there:

```bash
cd ~/.mrm # or cd ~/dotfiles/mrm
npm init -y
npm install --save mrm-core
```

[mrm-core](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm-core) is an utility library created to write Mrm tasks, it has function to work with common config files (JSON, YAML, INI, Markdown), npm dependencies, etc.

You can find [some examples here](https://github.com/sapegin/dotfiles/tree/master/mrm) or check [code of internal tasks](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm/tree/master/src/tasks).

## Change log

The change log can be found on the [Releases page](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm/releases).

## Contributing

Everyone is welcome to contribute. Please take a moment to review the [contributing guidelines](Contributing.md).

## Authors and license

[Artem Sapegin](http://sapegin.me) and [contributors](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm/graphs/contributors).

MIT License, see the included [License.md](License.md) file.

Commit message:

Docs: Add a note about Lerna

Readme.md, after:

# Marmot (mrm)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sapegin/mrm.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/sapegin/mrm)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/mrm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mrm)

Command line tool to help you keep configuration (`package.json`, `.gitignore`, `.eslintrc`, etc.) of your open source projects in sync.

## Features

* Will not overwrite your data if you don’t want it to
* Has tools to work with JSON, YAML, INI, Markdown and text files
* Has bunch of [customizable tasks](#tasks)
* Easy to write [your own tasks](#custom-tasks)

![](https://d3vv6lp55qjaqc.cloudfront.net/items/1g0e2M3m2Y3j0m3B3n1t/Image%202017-06-20%20at%209.00.39%20PM.png)

## Motivation

Most of the available tools are template based. Template approach works moderately well for new project generation but doesn’t work well for updating. Marmot’s approach is closer to [codemods](https://github.com/facebook/codemod) than templates.

## Installation

```
npm install -g mrm
```

## Usage

Print a list available of tasks:

```shell
mrm
```

Run a task or an alias

```shell
mrm gitignore
mrm license
```

Run multiple tasks:

```shell
mrm gitignore license
```

Override config options (or run without a config file):

```shell
mrm license --config:name "Gandalf the Grey" --config:email "gandalf@middleearth.com" --config:url "http://middleearth.com"
```

Custom config and tasks folder:

```shell
mrm license --dir ~/unicorn
```

## Usage via npx

If you have npm 5.3 or newer you can use mrm without installation:

```shell
npx mrm
npx mrm gitignore
npx mrm license --config:name "Gandalf the Grey" --config:email "gandalf@middleearth.com" --config:url "http://middleearth.com"
```

## Configuration

Create `~/.mrm/config.json` or `~/dotfiles/mrm/config.json`:

```json5
{
    "name": "Gandalf the Grey",
    "email": "gandalf@middleearth.com",
    "url": "http://middleearth.com",
    "indent": "tab", // "tab" or number of spaces
    "readmeFile": "Readme.md", // Name of readme file
    "licenseFile": "License.md", // Name of license file
    "aliases": {  // Aliases to run multiple tasks at once
        "node": ["license", "readme", "package", "editorconfig", "eslint", "gitignore"]
    }
}
```

*Config file isn’t required, you can also pass config options via command line. Default tasks will try to [read data](https://github.com/sapegin/user-meta) fom your npm and Git configuration.*

## Tasks

### codecov

Adds [Codecov](https://codecov.io/) to Travis CI config (see [travis](#travis) task) and Readme badge.

### editorconfig

[EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/): adds `.editorconfig`.

Config options:

* `indent` — indentation, `tab` or number of spaces (by default `tab`).

### eslint

[ESLint](http://eslint.org/): adds `.eslintrc`, adds npm script and installs dependencies.

Config options:

* `eslintPreset` — preset name (not npm package name, by default will install `eslint:recommended` preset)
* `eslintPeerDependencies` — additional dependencies to install (e.g. `['prettier', 'eslint-plugin-prettier']`)

### gitignore

Adds `.gitignore` with `node_modules`, logs and artifacts of popular code editors.

### jest

[Jest](https://facebook.github.io/jest/): adds npm scripts, updates `.gitignore`, `.npmignore`, `.eslintignore` with common patterns, installs dependencies. Tries to get rid of Mocha and AVA configs.

### license

Adds license file based on `license` field in `package.json`.

Config options:

* `licenseFile` — File name (by default `License.md`).

### lintstaged

[lint-staged](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged): creates config in `package.json`, sets up pre-commit Git hook and installs dependencies.

### package

Creates `package.json`.

### readme

Creates Readme file.

Config options:

* `readmeFile` — Name of the readme file (by default `Readme.md`).

### styleguidist

[React Styleguidist](https://react-styleguidist.js.org/): adds style guide config, adds npm scripts and installs dependencies.

### stylelint

[Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/): adds `.stylelintrc`, adds npm script and installs dependencies.

Config options:

* `stylelintPreset` — preset name (by default will install `stylelint-config-standard` preset)
* `stylelintExtensions` — file extensions to lint (by default `.css`)

### travis

[Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/): creates `.travis.yml` and adds Travis CI badge to Readme.

### typescript

[TypeScript](https://stylelint.io/): adds `tsconfig.json` and installs dependencies.

## Custom tasks

Create either `~/.mrm/<taskname>/index.js` or `~/dotfiles/mrm/<taskname>/index.js`. If `<taskname>` is the same as one of the internal tasks your task will override an internal one.

```js
const { /* ... */ } = require('mrm-core');
const meta = require('user-meta');
module.exports = function(config, argv) {
  const { name, email } = config
    .defaults({ name: meta.name }) // Set “dynamic” default values (this will affect require() method below)
    .require('name', 'email') // Mark config values as required
    .values(); // Returns object with all config options
  // config('name') - config value
  // config('name', 'default value') - config value with a default value
  // argv - command line arguments
};
module.exports.description = 'Task description';
```

If your custom tasks have dependencies (such as `mrm-core`) you should initialize the `mrm` folder as an npm module and list your dependencies there:

```bash
cd ~/.mrm # or cd ~/dotfiles/mrm
npm init -y
npm install --save mrm-core
```

[mrm-core](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm-core) is an utility library created to write Mrm tasks, it has function to work with common config files (JSON, YAML, INI, Markdown), npm dependencies, etc.

You can find [some examples here](https://github.com/sapegin/dotfiles/tree/master/mrm) or check [code of internal tasks](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm/tree/master/src/tasks).

## Work with Lerna

To run a task for each package in a [Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna) repository:

```
for d in packages/* ; do echo "$d..."; cd $d; mrm TASK; cd ../..; done
```

## Change log

The change log can be found on the [Releases page](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm/releases).

## Contributing

Everyone is welcome to contribute. Please take a moment to review the [contributing guidelines](Contributing.md).

## Authors and license

[Artem Sapegin](http://sapegin.me) and [contributors](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm/graphs/contributors).

MIT License, see the included [License.md](License.md) file.
